# Laravel Extras

This lightweight package is designed to add support for various (non-default) Laravel conventions.

### [Installation](#Installation)
### Available Options:
- #### [Enum](#enum)
- #### [Repository](#repository)
- #### [Service](#service)
- #### [Advanced Command](#advanced-command)



## Installation
1. Add the following to the `composer.json` file at the root of your project:
``` 
"repositories": [
    {
        "type": "vcs",
        "url": "https://github.com/jeremy-langevin-twc/jl-laravel-extras"
    }
]
```
Or add the inner object to your `repositories` array if one already exists.

2. Install the package with composer:
```
composer require jl-twc/jl-laravel-extras 
```

---
## Enum

Generation: 
``` 
php artisan make:enum ENUM_NAME
```
Extending the Enum class is a great way to define constants that can be used acrost your application. Doing so allows you to modify the value of a constant in one location, while seeing the same value change throughout the app.

ex.
```
<?php

namespace App\Enum;

class Criticality extends Enum
{
    const LOW = 'Low';
    const MEDIUM = 'Medium';
    const HIGH = 'High';
}
```

Referencing values from your Enum throughout your application is simple:
```
use App\Enum\Criticality;

$asset->criticality = Criticality::LOW;
```

Enums can be used in request validation, conditional statements, model values and more. To methods available with the Enum class, take a look inside the base Enum.php file of this package.

---
## Repository
Generation:
```
php artisan make:repository REPOSITORY_NAME
```

Repositories are a great place to store business logic. For example, using methods of a Repository inside of a Controller is a great way to keep your Controllers lean.

If you want to learn more about the Laravel Repository pattern, [check out this article](https://medium.com/@farhadmsyv/laravel-repository-pattern-861c2dd96a32).

---
## Services

Generation:
```
php artisan make:service SERVICE_NAME
```
Similar to Repositories, Services allow you to break sets of code out into separate files, where they can be referenced later. How/if you use them is up to personal preference. [Check out this article](https://joe-wadsworth.medium.com/laravel-repository-service-pattern-acf50f95726) for one example on how to use Laravel Services. 

---
## Advanced Command
Generation:
```
php artisan make:advanced-command COMMAND_NAME
```
The advanced command is a work-in-progress take on the traditional Console command generated by Laravel.

In particular, this custom command adds:
- Processing time down to milliseconds logged to the terminal
- A `baseQuery` function, which allows you to define the query (if applicable) that is used in your command
- A progress bar, which has a default size of the length of the results from your base query
- Optional DB transaction / rollback calls to test your command without changing your database.



